---
layout: post
title: Information Security - Currently Updating...
date: 2023-08-29 11:00:00
description: Info Sec - INI
tags: CMU
categories: Study
featured: true
---
### Course Evaluation (Final grade: A)
This course is structured for those who have minimal or some previous experience in computer security. It covers a broad spectrum of topics and also delves deeply into each area. The exams present a considerable challenge, and the lab requires effort, depending on the student's prior knowledge in security. Despite having studied information security and software security during my undergraduate studies, I found the labs in this course particularly engaging. Some topics, like cryptocurrency, privacy, and security management, were especially intriguing and somewhat new to me, adding a fresh perspective to my learning experience.

### Reference Book
#### Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Systems, by Ross J. Anderson

## **Blog Chapters**
1. [Chapter 1: Thread Model & Basic Concepts of Information Security](#topic-1)
2. [Chapter 2-1: Access Control](#topic-2)
3. [Chapter 3:](#topic-3)
4. [Chapter 4: Cypto](#topic-4)

## **Chapter 1: Basic Concepts of Information Security** <a name="topic-1"></a>
[Back to Blog Chapters](#blog-chapters)
### What is security?

### Overview of Topics Covered
- Foundations & crypto
- Access Control
- Network and web sec
- Software sec
- crypto app
- Human and socio-eco factors

<!-- ### Grade
- In-class participation polls - 5
- Offline participation activities - 5
- Homework assignments - 50
- Midterm - 20
- Final - 20 -->
<!-- 
### Homework
- Five grace days for the entire semester
- Earn one more grace day if you submit 24 hours earlier
- If keeping 5+ until the semester: special group activity with instructor & TA -->

#### Secrecy, privacy, and confidentiality
- Privacy: keeping personal information secret
- Confidentiality: obligation to preserve someone else's information secret
- Secrecy: effect of mechanisms used to limit the number of principles who can access information

#### Data integrity
- Protect message contents
#### Identification
- Identify oneself to the system
- Can by pseudonymous
#### Anonymity
- Alice decided to use Tor to browse websites anonymously
#### Authentication
- Authenticate the letter I received is from X
#### Non-repudiation
- Assurance that someone cannot deny something

#### Authorization, certification, access control. revocatio, witnessing
- Witnessing: verifying the creation or existence of information by an entity other than creator.
- Revocation: Retraction of certification or authorization


#### Freshness & AGE
- Freshness: proof that an event occurred after a given point in time
- Age: Proof that an event occurred before a given point in time

#### Mechanisms to achieve freshness and age
- Timestamp

#### Availability


### Security analysis
- Consider computer systems at the doctor's office
- Target system? Enumerate assets & value, Operating Value, Replacement cost
- Adversaries? 
- Security requirements? 
- Effective Security Approach? 


### Approaches to security
- Social norms: socially unacceptable for some behaviors
- Legal enforcement: laws
- Economics: attack is too costly

### Technological approaches
- Keep bad people at bay
- Strong lines of defense: cryptography, firewall, ...
- Redundancy: Availability, multiple paths
- Detection: can be used as a feed to legal system
- Preemptive strike: ptp file sharing network poisoning
- Recovery: Backups


### Security Engineering
- Practice is important!


## Threat Model
#### STRIDE - different types of attacks
#### Security Properties


#### Example - security of ATM
```
People --------card info--------> Bank

Create PIN:
1. PIN verification key to get a natural PIN from an acct number (using like DES)
2. The user's selected pin is combined with the natrual pin to get the PIN offset
3. PIN offset is stored on the bank side
4. Without the pin verification key, the attacker wouldn't get the natural pin

PIN verification key + Account number
               |
               V
            Natural PIN      User's pin
                |               |
                -----------------
                        |
                        V
                    PIN offset


Verify PIN:
1. Re-compute Pin offset using acct number and user's pin
2. Compare it with the stored one

Do we send user's pin through the network? NO

Enc(Pin enc key, pin) ----> Enc(Pin enc key, pin)
Bank then can decrypt to get the actual pin, and compute

Terminal or hardware is trusted, with its own key.
Working keys to allow transactions with foreign banks
Zone keys

It still fails... (Ross Anderson, 1993)

Security by obsecurity not correct
(reliance on secrecy as the main method of providing security to a system or component, specifically in security engineering, whether on design or implementation.)

Policies are important!
- In the US, custormer bears almost no responsibility in the charges incurred


Insider Attacks
Backer's ability to issue a 2nd card
- Could even conceal withdrawals in some cases

Outsider attacks
- Postal interception of cards and PINs
- Replay attacks
- Test transactions
- False terminals
- Fake slots
- Wireless camera


Guessable PINs
Complex fraud


• Security by obscurity
• No prior experience available
• Result: Threat model was wrong
Focused on what could possibly go wrong
• Relatively complex key system to ensure secrecy
• Should have focused on what was likely to go wrong
• Human error rendering cryptosystem useless 
• Should consider both human and tech. factors


Recommendations
• Get inspiration from safety-critical systems
• List all possible failure modes
• Document which strategy is used to make each failure mode impossible
• Review the proposed implementation of strategies by many experts
• Certification required to ensure properly trained personnel is in charge of maintenance of cryptosystem


Possible strategies
• Formal verification
    • Similar to the railway system 
    • Used in cryptology
• Feedback loop failure analysis and design guidelines 
    • Similar to avionics
    • E.g., wireless security: WEPà802.11i 
• More reading
    • Chip and pin
    • http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/research/security/banking/


Did we learn the lessons?
• EMV: Why Payment Systems Fail
• 24 years later – same author (Ross Anderson, adding Steven J. Murdoch)
• Chip and pin/signature cards
• Yes cards: copy chip certificate and say “yes” to any PIN
• Can defeat with online transaction verification (requires chip to verify transaction details) or Dynamic Data Authentication (requires crypto processor in chip)
• Side-effect: PIN use in stores made it easier to create magnetic strip cards and steal from ATMs


```

## Boolean attack tree
- Listing all possible failure modes
## Parameterized attack tree
- Can be used to assess the cost of an attack
- Can use other quantities (e.g., probabilities) instead
## Practical attack tree
- Generally multi-parameter
- Probabilities
- Monetary cost
- Combination of continuous and boolean parameters 
- Requires special equipment/knowledge...
- Needs to be correlated with knowledge about attackers to be useful
　

## STRIDE

```
• Six categories
• Spoofing of user identity
• Tampering
• Repudiation
• Information disclosure (privacy breach or data leak) 
• Denial of service (D.o.S)
• Elevation of privilege
```


## **Chapter 2-1: Access Control** <a name="topic-2"></a>
[Back to Blog Chapters](#blog-chapters)
#### Problem: Resources need to be shared and protected
#### How do we regulate access?
- Saltzer-Schroeder

#### Access Control
- Principal makes a request for an object
- Reference monitor grants or denies the request
```
(authentication) -> Principal -> Do sth -> Reference monitor(authorization) -> Object
```
#### Entity Authentication (Not message authentication)
- Determining if an entity, in fact, who they claim to be.
- A cryptographic authentication protocol provides: Entity authentication, authenticated key establishment, or both!
- Can be unilateral or mutal(Both verified each other)

#### Authentication Factors
- **Knowlege**: can be shared, forgotten, guessed [pwd, id, pin]
- **Possesson**: can be shared, duplicated, or stolen [smart card, electronic key]
- **Inherence**: difficult to share, false positives and false negatives possible, forging difficult [fingerprint, face, voice print]

#### Single sign-on (SSO)
- authenticate once
- no need to re-authenticate for each resource from a service provider
- users now need one credential 
- subsequence access credentials or data stolen are created for later identity representation

#### Risks or threat?

#### Types of SSO
- Credential Manager: helps users manage pwds or other keys
- Enterprise SSO: provides access to resources controlled by a single administrative domain
- Federated Identity Systems: authentication across different administrative domains


#### Goals of Access Control: To Prevent
- Unauthorized information release, modification, DOS...

#### Access control Policy vs Mechanism
- Policy is a specification of who can access what, when, (under which condition)?
- Organizing policy approaches are models
- - Discretionary = users can give access to each other
- - Mandatory = admin sets policy
- - Role-based access control = all policies specficed via roles

- Mechanism makes it possible to implement policy

#### Trusted Computing Base (TCB)
- The set of components that must function properly for the system to be secure
- Must be as small as possible
- Failure of TCB may result in additional access being granted

#### Why is access control complicated?
- Can Alice access file X? 
- Can alice change whi is authorized to have access to file X? -> Access control policy of access control policy...

#### **Principles for access control (1/3)**

- (Saltzer and Schroeder, 1975)
- **Economy of mechanism**
- - Keep if Simple, Stupid!
- - Any design or implementation error may break the entire ystem
- - 3 lines of code are easily verified

- **Fail safe defaults**
- - WHen in doubt, deny access

- **Complete mediation**
- - Every access to every object must be checked for authority

- **Open Design**
- - See Kerckhoff's principle
- - Do not hide security strategies

- **Privilege Seperation**
- - Ask two principals to unlock the mechanism 
- - Avoids single points of failure

- **Least Privilege**
- - Every program and every user of the system should operate using the least set of privileges necessary to complete the job

- **Least common mechanism**
- - Minimize the amount of shared info

- **Psychological acceptability**
- - Make it easier for users to use the system properly, orthersie they are likely to incorrectly use the protection mechanisms 


#### Simple access control policies
- Unprotected
- Completion isolation, each user is a sandbox
- Controlled sharing, who can access in which conditions


#### Other variations
- Access only to statistical data
- Access based on clearance levels, static labeling of resources

#### A Simple Isolation Mechanism
- TCB? Is the memory part of the TCB? We trust the memory.
- What about processor? We trust the processor.
- The supervisor program? Yes, otherwise we can't have isolation mechanism
- Access Control of access control. Nobody should be able to tamper it.

#### Shared Information
- Not practical for perfect isolation
- - databases
- Use libraries
- - saves space..

#### Access Matrices
- (User, Resoures, Access)
- User (principal)
- ACL, access control list

#### Unix
- d rwx rwx rwx
- directory, user, group, other
- Special bits: setuid, setgid, t-bit (x->s, x->s, x->t)
- UID=0, Superuser(as convention)

#### SUID, SGID
- A program needs low-level access, but the programmer makes it suid root...
- Program: program crashed, and leaves a "core dump"
- The core file is owned by root
- THe core filer is readable by "world"

#### Sticky-bit
- Prevents file deletion or renaming in that directory
- Useful? 
- Be careful that someone can still modify the contents of the file in that directory! 
- Superuser can still forcese

#### Access Control in Windows
- NT4, similar to UNIX, but with added flags(take ownership, delete, change permissions)

#### Capabilities
- row in ACL, sam can do *** for OS, Accounts program, data, ...
- The user has a list of the access rights, which is unforgeable
- Trusted party signs a ticket giving you rights to certain resources
- THe user presemts the ticket to reference monitor when attempting an access
- A resource must still keep a list of what capabilities(roles) can access the resource, more complex than ACL
- vs ID-Based Protection: ticket oriented, regardless of identity of ticket holder
- - Tickets must be unforgeable
- ID-based: identities need to be checked
- - After ID verification, authorization verification, access is granted
- - Authorization lists held by object guard
- - Identities must be unspoofable

#### ACL vs Capabilities
- Revocation of one subject: Resources-based require change the columns in the ACL, but Capabilities require change of all objects
- Revocation of one subject is hard for ACL, as one subject has multiple objects. Similar for Capabilities.
- Giving access to new subjects: Update relevant objects for ACL, Issue new caps for capabilities is easy 

#### Discretionary Access Control vs Mandatory Access Control
- Unix vs secret,top secret...

#### Role-based access control
- Giving roles, not users


#### Bell-LaPadula model
- No read up
- No write down
- Noninterference: information at a higher level is invisible at a lower level
- (Probabilistic) Nondeducibility: someone at a low level cannot deduct with 100% probability what happens at a high level

#### "BLP upside down", Biba
- Integrity is the dual of confidentiality
- Care more about the Integrity
- Only read up
- Only write down

```
Windows Vista, no longer used
- read-down, write-down, what issue?
- System file may read something that can be malware!
```
- Biba along is not sufficient!



<!-- (Exam, giving exams...practice problems, which direction can go, in that direction, do I see a problem.) -->

[Back to Blog Chapters](#blog-chapters)

## **Chapter 4: Crpto** <a name="topic-4"></a>
[Back to Blog Chapters](#blog-chapters)

#### study of Cyptology is study of Cryptography(Maths, ..) and Cryptanalysis

#### Cryptography
- major policy takeaway points
- security by obscurity X 

#### Findings
- Humans are generally risk-averse when it comes to gains
- Humans generally risk-seeking when it comes to losses

#### Information technology policy
- Many entities involved

#### Export Control
- considered as a weapon
- dangerous states

#### Wassebaar
- Dual use good
- Control export of weapon
- Modifications: add intrusion software to export-controlled goods


#### Application binary interface
- x86-64 stack


<!-- This theme implements a built-in Jekyll feature, the use of Rouge, for syntax highlighting.
It supports more than 100 languages.
This example is in C++.
All you have to do is wrap your code in markdown code tags:

````markdown
```c++
code code code
```
````

```c++
int main(int argc, char const \*argv[])
{
    string myString;

    cout << "input a string: ";
    getline(cin, myString);
    int length = myString.length();

    char charArray = new char * [length];

    charArray = myString;
    for(int i = 0; i < length; ++i){
        cout << charArray[i] << " ";
    }

    return 0;
}
```

For displaying code in a list item, you have to be aware of the indentation, as stated in this [Stackoverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34987908/embed-a-code-block-in-a-list-item-with-proper-indentation-in-kramdown/38090598#38090598). You must indent your code by **(3 * bullet_indent_level)** spaces. This is because kramdown (the markdown engine used by Jekyll) indentation for the code block in lists is determined by the column number of the first non-space character after the list item marker. For example:

```markdown
1. We can put fenced code blocks inside nested bullets, too.
   1. Like this:
      ```c
      printf("Hello, World!");
      ```

   2. The key is to indent your fenced block in the same line as the first character of the line.
```

Which displays:

1. We can put fenced code blocks inside nested bullets, too.
   1. Like this:
      ```c
      printf("Hello, World!");
      ```

   2. The key is to indent your fenced block in the same line as the first character of the line.

By default, it does not display line numbers. If you want to display line numbers for every code block, you can set `kramdown.syntax_highlighter_opts.block.line_numbers` to true in your `_config.yml` file.

If you want to display line numbers for a specific code block, all you have to do is wrap your code in a liquid tag:

{% raw %}
{% highlight c++ linenos %}  <br/> code code code <br/> {% endhighlight %}
{% endraw %}

The keyword `linenos` triggers display of line numbers.
Produces something like this:

{% highlight c++ linenos %}

int main(int argc, char const \*argv[])
{
    string myString;

    cout << "input a string: ";
    getline(cin, myString);
    int length = myString.length();

    char charArray = new char * [length];

    charArray = myString;
    for(int i = 0; i < length; ++i){
        cout << charArray[i] << " ";
    }
}

    return 0;

{% endhighlight %} -->
